split out fun with functions, prioritize small exercises (#572)
Ada-Developers-Academy/textbook-curriculum: 10-JavaScript/fun-with-functions.md

# Intro to Functions!

## Learning Goals

> - Intro to syntax (defining and calling), exercise, functions with parameters, exercise

Reviewer: "exercise" feels weird to be in the learning goals.

Also, I might make "defining", "calling" and "functions with parameters" as sub bullets.

Author: lmao this was a note that i leftover for myself, oops, deleting now

- Learn and practice the syntax for defining and calling/invoking functions in JavaScript
- Learn and practice the syntax for using functions that have parameters

<!-- - Write and invoke some JavaScript functions
- Learn how JavaScript functions are different than Ruby methods
- Distinguish between a functional _expression_ and a function _declaration_
- Begin exploring what _higher order_ functions are -->

## Functions in JavaScript are like Methods in Ruby

In JavaScript, we can use functions to define reusable behavior.

This should _feel_ similar to methods in Ruby. They're not the same, but we can get into those details later. For now, we'll use functions to name and structure sections of code.

Either way, the syntax for functions is a lot different in JavaScript than in Ruby.

> ## Functions Are Objects, So We Assign Variables to Them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Functions Are Objects, So We Can Assign Them to Variables
```

Author: So I thought a lot about this... Idk, it's not _that_ important, but I really think of it as variable assignment that we assign variables to values, we don't assign values to variables........ idk idk but I would fight to keep as-is

Reviewer: I initially parsed this as talking about being able to add fields to functions.

### Assign

On the right-hand side of the assignment operator, you set the value to be a function, with the `function` keyword.

Let's make a function named `bark`, whose responsibility is to print to the terminal the sound a dog makes.

How do we do that? Let's declare a `const` variable named `bark`, and set its value to the function named `bark`. After we start the function with the words `function bark()`, we open up a block of code with curly braces, and put the inners of the function within the `{}`.

```javascript
const bark = function bark() {
  console.log('Woof!');
};
```

Open the `node` REPL and copy-and-paste in the following expressions. What do you get?

1.
    ```javascript
    const bark = function bark() {
      console.log('Woof!');
    };
    ```
1. `bark;`

<details>

  <summary>
    Compare your answers here
  </summary>

  1. `undefined`
  1. `[Function: bark]`
</details>

### Calling a Function

We've defined a function, so how do we call it?

Unlike in Ruby, JavaScript requires you to type in parentheses if you want to invoke a function:

```javascript
bark();
```

### The Finer Details About Defining Functions

> When we defined the function, we gave it the variable keyword `const`. We could have used `let` or `var`, but in general, we don't need any variable named `bark` to be reassigned. Because we don't need `bark` to every be reassigned, it makes sense to make it a constant.

Reviewer: I'd like to avoid mentioning `var` more than we have to.

```suggestion
When we defined the function, we gave it the variable keyword `const`. We could have used `let`, but in general, we don't need any variable named `bark` to be reassigned. Because we don't need `bark` to ever be reassigned, it makes sense to make it a constant.
```
